My name is Steve Fletcher, I'm the Artistic Director of Swickr Carnival. I'm also the
founder of Cardiff Carnival, which is going to be enjoying in a very few short minutes
its 25th anniversary parade. We're just lining up and we have over 600 costumes and parading
musicians. It's become over the years Wales's biggest, best and most colourful carnival parade
and what can I say the excitement here is palpable. We've got 15 different sections, everything from
space aliens to dinosaurs to tributes to different cultures from Brazil, Africa and India and of
course to commemorate our 25th anniversary Cardiff Carnival we will be having an exhibition in the
Cardiff Story Museum in the old library in Cardiff in March of 2015 not least with some
fabulous prints from our good friends the Cardiff Camera Club. So happy carnival to everyone and
yours with a quarter century of celebration behind him Steve Fletcher Swickr Carnival.
So I'm Sally McLennan and I'm from Cardiff and I'm one of the one of three workshop leaders for
the carnival crew based in Cardiff which is a community participant group and we it's an all
inclusive group where everybody drums everybody dances everyone sings and everyone participates
in making costume and we perform carnivals we perform all sorts of events the beauty of the
group is that we have people from all of all ages so we have I think our youngest is eight and our
oldest is in their 50s or 60s and all levels of ability and everybody is like one big family gets
on really really well. Well Thelma you've been involved with the the carnival a long time just
tell me a little bit about it what it's meant what it's meant to you. I joined it in 203 and
it's meant a lot to me because at the time I was feeling a bit low and down and it really helped me
to bring myself together and I thoroughly enjoyed it I've done a lot of sewing and putting and
sticking things on and also getting brown fingers and enjoying the dances and everything
that goes on it's a very nice atmosphere to be in. Hello well I'm Johnny of Wanda Brass and I
suppose I've been with Wanda Brass for something like five seven probably closer to ten years
actually I should think. Wanda Brass is a band that is as old as the carnival is they're about
25 years old and going strong we we're made up of largely amateur players we started off as a
community band up in the valleys and then we've moved to Cardiff since most of our music we do
around Cardiff we get involved with various regular gigs parades events festivals and so on
and the music we play is as varied as the people we have we have we have jazz we have funk soul
scar and everything in between and the main point of Wanda Brass really is that everyone has fun
and what everyone enjoys about Wanda Brass is that they go to a gig and even if it's really hard
work and it is we we have real fun doing it and every rehearsal you know everyone's having fun
which is the main thing for us and yeah we are very pleased again to be part of Cardiff
carnival this year and we look forward to playing here again. Right Adrian what are you you're the
costume designer? Yes that's me. What you doing here now what's been happening? It's the parade
line up everyone's getting face painted putting on the big costumes and lining up ready for the
start of the parade. What goes into preparing for a parade like this? Oh god that would take too
long to tell you months of work months of planning. And does the workshops that you hold before
the parade do they help? Oh gosh yeah that's where the costumes are made and created and as
you can see they're all around the car park. And where does your artistic talent come from
then in helping all this? I don't really know I don't I just look at something think I look
pretty and I make it. And what do you think about 25 years of the carnival? Oh it's awesome we do
ourselves proud today. We're called Bang On and we're from Hope Valley near Shrewsbury and we're
a samba band and we do a fusion of Bangra as well and we try to have loads of fun we just have good
fun together we've all come up on the train and we're at Cardiff mass or Cardiff carnival as
it's now called and we're going to start playing in a second behind some amazing Egyptian people.
You've just seen the parade go through what do you think of it? I think it's very nice it's
amazing. I think it's very fascinating and quite international. It was completely amazing it's
a shame it rained but it was out of this world. There's a lot of work gone into that this it's
really worth coming to Cardiff to see. I think some of the costumes like the the fish and the
lion some of the top class costumes are amazing it's wonderful to see much bigger communities and
groups joining in this year and the standard of the costumes is fantastic. The stage today has
been absolutely round we've had huge audiences all day so the future is bright for Cardiff carnival
if we can get the businesses in the city centre to come and back us that's what we need we need
a small amount of money for every business and then we can make it bigger and we can take over the whole weekend.